---- HOW TO CREATE A KURUCZ FILE ----

(It's not really "creating"...it's just "finding")

The naming convention of Kurucz files looks complicated, but in fact
is relatively straightforward and is based mainly on the metallicity
of the star. 

- Determine the metallicity of your planet's star.  This information
  should be available in the planet file under info.metalstar.  For
  example, the planet file for the event js41 is named
  sstphot_info_hatp1b.pro.  Opening this file, you will see the
  line: 
  info.metalstar    = 0.13d ; [Fe/ H], Bakos et al. 2007

- Go to Dr. Kurucz's website.  The address is:
  http://kurucz.harvard.edu/
  Alternatively, you can type 'kurucz' into an internet search engine
  and it will give you his website address. 

- Click on the link directing you to "Grids of Model Atmospheres"

- Near the bottom of the page you will see links to different grids.
  The names will look like this: 
   .
   .
   .
   GRIDM05
   GRIDM05ODFNEW
   GRIDM05AODFNEW
   GRIDM05NOVER
   GRIDM10
   .
   .
   .
   
- The first letter after the word GRID will either be an M or a P, which
  stands for 'minus' and 'plus'.  This refers to whether the relative
  metallicity of the star is more or less than the metallicity of the
  sun.  Using our example, js41, the metallicity is 0.13, so it is
  positive. 

- The number after the M or P is the value of the metallicity.  05
  represents the value 0.5, 10 represents 1.0, etc. 
  Choose the value closest to that of your star.  For example, the
  closest available value to 0.13 is 01.

- The file suffix represents different methods of computing these
  models.  Some examples of suffixes are ODFNEW, AODFNEW and ANOVER,
  although others exist. According to his website, Dr. Kurucz strongly
  suggests using the models computed with the AODFNEW method, so make
  sure to choose a grid with this suffix.  You want to choose the
  AODFNEW file (or ODFNEW if AODFNEW is not availabe) over the regular
  file even if a closer value exists in a regular file.  Using our
  example, 0.13 for js41, the closest available value is P01. However,
  an AODFNEW or ODFNEW file is not available for that metallicity, so 
  you must choose the next closest value, which is in this case 
  GRIDP02ODFNEW. A star with metallicity equal to that of the sun
  (0.0) corresponds to the GRIDP00AODFNEW model.

- Click on the link to see a list of available files.

- Look for the file ending in the extension .pck.  This should look
  something like: fp05k2odfnew.pck.  You will notice the p05 in the
  file name, which corresponds to the metallicity chosen on the
  previous page.  The k2 in the file name is the turbulent velocity of
  the stellar atmosphere, which in this instance is 2.00 km/s.  You
  may come across an instance where two versions are available, k2 and
  k0.  The k0 is a special case (no turbulent velocity), so always
  choose the k2 version over the k0 version.  

- Once you have determined which file you need, right-click on it and
  choose "Save Link As..." 

- The file should be saved with the planet name should be added in
  front of the standard Kurucz file name.  For example,
  hatp1b-fp05k2odfnew.pck 

- Save the file in ~/ast/esp01/anal/kurucz
